# sar_dataset
Dataset composed of 105 SAR images of roads and their corresponding road network graphs. The dataset was constructed for a data science project at CentraleSupélec [1]. The roads present in the dataset were mainly taken from large roads in the countryside, where the road is clearly visible in SAR imagery.

### SAR images
The images were acquired through GoogleEarthEngine from the Sentinel-1 satellites. The **satellite acquisition characteristics** are listed below:
- Processing level: Level 1 GRD (Ground Range Deteced)
- Transmitter-receiver polarisation: VV (Vertical transmit, Vertical receive)
- Instrument mode: IW (Interferometric Wide (IW) swath)
- Resolution: 10 x 10 m

The SAR images have 352 x 352 pixels and are named `region_x_sat.png`.

### Graphs
The graphs are generated by Sat2Graph's [2] encoding algorithm, which fetches road network information through OpenStreetMap. 

The ground-truth graph images are named `region_x_gt.png`. They can be easily processed and used for image segmentation.

The ground-truth graph information interpretable by Sat2Graph [2] is stored as `region_1_refine_gt_graph_samplepoints.json`, `region_1_refine_gt_graph.p` and `region_1_graph_gt.pickle`.

## References
[1] Gonzales, C., Hubert, M., Oliveira, I., Strelow, L., & Navas, L. V. (2022, January). Détection et reconstruction de routes à partir des Images SAR. CentraleSupélec Pôle Projet Data Science. [Access the report.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15ye9lFsMioFfnzUxzQSnxEJdEb6fCxaF/view?usp=sharing)

[2] He, S., Bastani, F., Jagwani, S., Alizadeh, M., Balakrishnan, H., Chawla, S., Elshrif, M. M., Madden, S., &amp; Sadeghi, M. A. (2020). Sat2Graph: Road graph extraction through graph-tensor encoding. Computer Vision – ECCV 2020, 51–67. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58586-0_4 
